---
author:
- by DropShape
title: MarkDown 2 Book
...

Description
===========

MD2Book wraps the [Pandoc](http://johnmacfarlane.net/pandoc) and
[kindlegen](http://www.amazon.com/gp/feature.html?ie=UTF8&docId=1000234621)
CLI tools with a grunt task. Any books that you can create using Pandoc
you should be able to create using this task.

Please visit the [pandoc
documentation](http://johnmacfarlane.net/pandoc/README.html) for full
details \#Installation

NPM
---

    npm install md2book --save

Other Dependencies
------------------

### [Pandoc](http://johnmacfarlane.net/pandoc)

[Pandoc](http://johnmacfarlane.net/pandoc) is the only required CLI tool
however if you want to create PDF or KINDLE(mobi) files then you need to
install extra tools outlined below

### [PDFLATEX](http://www.tug.org/mactex/)

In order to build out PDF files you need to install
[MACTEX](http://www.tug.org/mactex/) so that you can use
[PDFLATEX](http://www.tug.org/mactex/) this is a rather huge download of
more than 2.gig once downloaded unpack and run the following commands

    find /usr/ -name "pdflatex"
    ln -s /path/to/pdflatex /usr/local/bin

### [KINDLEGEN](http://www.amazon.com/gp/feature.html?ie=UTF8&docId=1000765211)

In order to build mobi files that can be used on kindle devices you need
to download
[KINDLEGEN](http://www.amazon.com/gp/feature.html?ie=UTF8&docId=1000765211)
once downloaded unpack it and run the following command.

    ln -s /path/to/kindlegen /usr/local/bin

You can now build all the available types mentioned in the \#Usage
guide. \#Usage

Configuration
-------------

The Sample book ( the one your reading right now ) comes with a sample
Gruntfile.js that shows how to create the following versions of your
book.

-   MD
-   HTML
-   EPUB
-   RTF
-   PDF
-   KINDLE (mobi)

The Gruntfile pulls its data from the package.json file for details
about the books metadata. For example the book title, Author and
language.

Combining markdown files into one
---------------------------------

The first step required in order to compile the book is combining of the
individual markdown files into one. If you look at the example Gruntfile
you will see a shell command that combines all the source markdown files
into one markdown file with the title passed in the configuration file.
You can run this combine task with the following command.

    grunt shell:combine

Running the sample project
--------------------------

Change directories to the md2book folder and then run grunt to create
various versions of this book in HTML, EPUB, MOBI etc..

    cd node_modules/md2book/
    grunt

or build only one type of book with one of the following commands.

    grunt readme
    grunt html
    grunt epub
    grunt rtf
    grunt pdf
    grunt kindle

Options
=======

**Required** md2book supports all of pandocs options through it's own
options object. However there is one required value that is not an
option and that is the files property. This can be an array of files
however it is best to combine all the markdown files into one file
before passing it to this property as then it will create all the
correct hyperlinks for you within your book. If you pass an array of
markdown files then it will link to each markdown file and not the
generated output.

    pandoc :{
        files: compiledMarkdownFile
    }

**Optional**

**dest** Location where you would like the book output. If the folder
does not already exist it will be created. If are outputting html then
you should consider using the `--self-contained` flag to force inclusion
of your linked assets

**-o** : Output file name for example index.html or Title.pdf.

**-c** : CSS file to associate with the document for example html.css or
epub.css

**-s** : All other pandoc options can be referenced through the command
options for example you can set -t epub to make your book an epub book
or you can set --toc to create a table of contents please refer to the
options from the [pandoc
documentation](http://johnmacfarlane.net/pandoc/README.html).
